SETUP - Here is what you will do:

You will pick a scenario 
On your own, you will try to write the perfect prompt for this scenario
You will then type your prompt into Chat GPT and ask it 3 questions: 
On a scale of 1 to 10, how would you rate the quality of this query? 
What is clear from the query? What questions do you have about it? 
How can the query be improved to make sure your response closely aligns with my goals today?
Share and discuss your results with your peers on The Portal
 

Step 1: Select a scenario 

Now, here are some scenarios for you to pick from:

Making a workout plan 
Becoming a Youtube influencer 
Writing a flash fiction novella
Learning the history of the pyramids 
Marketing a beauty product online 
Step 2: Go to ChatGPT

Step 3: Write a clear prompt about your scenario using this format “<<your prompt>>” (Read step 4 before you click the send arrow button in ChatGPT)

Examples

<<I am a 21-year-old male doctor currently employed at the local hospital. I do not like going to the gym, but I would like to create a workout plan that can help me increase my productivity at work. I plan to work out three times a week.>>

<<I am a 19-year-old entrepreneur who co-founded a beauty company with my sister; I am about to launch a make-up kit for bankers; this kit promises to keep female bankers looking beautiful all through the day. I need a marketing plan to market my beauty product online, my target audience is women between the ages of 18-45>>

Step 4: Answer these 3 questions about your prompt

On a scale of 1 to 10, how would you rate the quality of this query? 
What is clear from the query? What questions do you have about it? 
How can this query be improved to make sure your response closely aligns with your goals today?
Step 5: Make necessary adjustments to your prompts based on the answers to the questions in Step 4

Step 6: Share your experience with your peers on The Portal in a short paragraph, ensure your paragraph answers these questions;

What were the most effective aspects of your prompts? 
What were common areas where your prompts could be improved? 
What are 3 key measures you will implement to write better prompts?
What is Chat GPT great at from your observations?
What is Chat GPT not so great at from your observations?
